Sometimes people have asked me, "Well,
how did you end up supporting President
Trump?" In many ways, I think the
campaign I'm running is not particularly
partisan. However, there are realities
about running for office in the US. But
look, he's not on the ballot. And this
is a this is a point of choice for
California.
>> Steve Hilton, once a British political
strategist, now a Trumpbacked Republican
running for governor of California. Do
you agree with his decision to go to war
in Iran?
>> Well, look, I I'm just focused on this
race. You really don't think the voters
of California deserve to hear you
express on that. You're you're trying to
be a leader of the state.
>> No, I understand. But I then there's
plenty to fix and focus on in
California.
>> From Bloomberg Weekend, this is the
Michelle Hussein Show.
Over the next few months, the US
political climate is set to become even
more intense as we approach the
midterms. This November's set of
elections will mark the halfway point
between one presidential vote and the
next. And while the main focus will be
on Congress and whether the Democrats
can seize control of one or both houses,
there are some fascinating races
elsewhere. One of them is the race to be
the next governor of California. It's a
notable Democraticleaning state, but it
has had Republican governors. Ronald
Reagan, more recently, Arnold
Schwarzenegger, and this time a
Republican is through to the final
stage, one of the two candidates who
will be on the ballot in November. His
name is Steve Hilton, and he's unusual,
not least because he only became a US
citizen 5 years ago. He's someone whose
name I've known for about 20 years from
his time embedded in UK politics working
for the Conservative leader David
Cameron before and after he became prime
minister. So when I saw Steve Hilton's
advance through the California governor
primary, I knew I wanted to understand
it. He's up against Democrat Javier Bera
who used to work for Joe Biden. But
California is such an important place
economically, not just in US terms, but
globally. And that means this
conversation does go beyond state
matters. Above all, I hope that through
it you get a much better sense of the
man who wants to be California's next
leader.
>> How are you doing?
>> Hello. I'm very well. How are you?
>> I'm very well. Great to see you.
>> Thank you for saying yes to my email out
of the blue. How are you? Most
importantly,
>> good, thanks. On to the next round.
>> Well, yeah, I know. Absolutely.
>> Next round of interviews or next round
of the campaign.
>> The campaign. The next fight, you know,
like there's no break. We got to keep
going. There's not much time now.
>> Well, look, we'll talk about all of that
and it's clearly it's been a remarkable
few few weeks for you. You've obviously
been involved in politics for a long
time. You've been a strategist. You've
been a political aid. Uh, you've been a
commentator on Fox News. I'm still
curious about the moment when you
decided to run for office yourself
because that's a very big decision to
make.
>> I don't think there was one specific
moment, but there was a a period of time
that that I can recall. As you
mentioned, I'd been a host on
television, a most unexpected turn in my
career in media. I greatly enjoyed that.
But as the as the years went on, I felt
that I wanted to get back into actually
doing things rather than just talking
about things. I love California. Um been
living here since 2012, raised my family
here, started a business here. I could
see that things were going off the rails
pretty badly from a policy point of
view. So I started a policy
organization, Golden Together, started
working on some of our big problems in
California. I then started engaging with
Sacramento trying to advance those
policy ideas through the legislature and
that was the point where I realized just
how dysfunctional and broken
California's system of government is
because every single meeting I had with
legislators, Democrats, Republicans, it
was the same story. Yes, you're right.
These policies you're advocating would
make a huge difference. We'd get more
housing built. We'd lower the cost. All
those things are true. However, it can
never happen because the unions won't
allow it. The climate activists won't
allow it. The system just can't make it
happen. And I just realized then that
something has to change. Otherwise, this
state that I love is just going to go
continue to decline.
>> Yeah. It's the state you've made your
home in the country that you've made
your home having having left the UK. And
we're going to dig into all of this and
the nuts and bolts of your campaign in a
moment, but I just want to understand
you more broadly to start with. Would
would you say that being on Fox, having
that kind of prominence on TV, that's
got to have played an important role in
rising in the Republican party, right?
Um it Donald Trump, it helped his rise
because he was known from television and
he was a fan of your show on Fox. I
think that's right that it gives you a
platform. But I think it's that
combination actually of media
experience, policy and government
experience and business experience that
actually is a good fit uh for this role
not only of running for governor but um
as I plan to be being the next governor.
>> But when did you actually become a
Republican? Because 2017 you were very
clearly saying you weren't partisan and
you were you were neither Democrat or
Republican.
Well, it's it's interesting. In many
ways, I think the campaign I'm running
is not particularly partisan. It's based
on some broad common sense principles
that I think most people can get behind.
So, I've never thought of myself as a
particularly partisan person. However,
there are uh realities about running for
office in in the US. It's it's basically
a two-party system. And of course I
identify very much with the with the
principles that underlly the Republican
party just as I do the Conservative
Party where I worked for some years and
was part of a coalition government led
by Conservative prime minister. The
basic ideas that you would associate
with the center right are ideas that I
share in terms of limiting the role of
government, enhancing individual
freedom. Those sorts of things have
always been part of my political
philosophy and and therefore connect
very much with the Republican party here
in America.
>> I of course remember you from your time
in the UK working for David Cameron
before he got elected after he became
prime minister. You were part of that
effort to detoxify the Conservative
party to make it more electable. Bring
it into more of the center ground, more
socially liberal, more climate
conscious. Are you still the same guy
who did that?
>> Oh, very much. Very much. I understand
that some people who haven't um been
following the intervening years may look
at that and say, "Well, that's very
different. David Cameron's a very
different uh personality to the
president who's the leader of the
Republican party in America today." I
can see that very clearly. But everyone
has their own personal style. But the
the ideas that really drove that process
of change for the Conservative Party in
particular, focusing on on people who've
been left behind, on dealing with
poverty and inequality, on helping
working people. That was a really big
part of the work that we did 20 years or
so ago with the Conservative Party. And
that's a big driver of of what I'm
really arguing for here. And there's
many other similarities as well. I think
the perhaps the broadest one is a sense
of of that that I've always had which is
a sense that we need to put power in
people's hands and and enable them to
fight back against establishments or
systems or centralized power that
benefits um a small group rather than
the majority of people. That's always
been a really drive important driving
force.
>> Yeah. But what you did for David
Cameron, the person who you still say
you are, that is very, very far from not
only Donald Trump himself, but MAGA. And
I just wonder how you reconcile that
because you are endorsed by President
Trump himself. What you're representing
yourself as is, I think, more the Arnold
Schwarzenegger uh wing of the Republican
party in California, and he's someone
who endorsed Kla Harris in the last
presidential election. Well, I it's I
don't think it's it's quite as uh the
the the boxes are quite as neat and
defined as that. I'm endorsed by many
different kinds of uh Republicans. Of
course, political parties are coalitions
and as I say, I think this campaign,
everything I'm arguing for is not is not
particularly partisan. The fact that
we've got Democrats supporting the
campaign is an example of that. And I
think that what I've always tried to
focus on is really the substance, the
ideas, specific things. I'm a pragmatic
candidate in this race, not an
ideologue. The the the the arguments I'm
making about how we need to turn
California around. We've got the highest
cost of living by far. I'm not sure it's
appreciated around the world because you
look at the headline for California with
the fourth biggest economy and there's a
sense of complacency there on the part
of the current leadership. They keep
saying that as if that answers all
questions underneath that. This is a
state that's in real trouble especially
from an economic point of view and the
solutions there actually go go across
party lines. They're just practical
things to make life easier for families
and businesses. So, I think this whole
conversation around, you know, labels
and whatever doesn't really get to the
point about what is needed in order to
help California get back on track.
>> Okay. But I don't think you can bat away
being the fourth largest economy in the
world quite so lightly. This happened
last year. It was the fifth largest.
Then California overtook Japan under
Gavin Newsome. It doesn't feel like a
failure to many people in the state, I
would suspect, and certainly to people
outside.
>> Well, I think it does to many people
inside because they're struggling to
even live. That's why during Gavin
Newsome's tenure as governor, nearly 2
million Californians have actually moved
out because they can't live here anymore
because it's so expensive. Let's just
look at that number, the fourth biggest
economy in the world. That's driven by
two things that don't actually tell a
story of health in terms of our economy.
Partly, it's driven by a very small
number of tech companies, fantastic
success stories, which I strongly
support. I'm very proud of the fact that
we're leading the AI revolution in
California. They generate enormous
amounts of revenue, but not very many
jobs. The second part of the story in
terms of the size of our economy is that
it includes the size of government.
They've doubled the budget of the state
of California in the last 10 years or
so. Meanwhile, the results on every
measure, education standards, um the
quality of our infrastructure, the
highest unemployment rate of all 50
states, the highest poverty rate of all
50 states tied with Louisiana. I think
if we don't change direction this year,
California really is heading for
economic disaster. I've heard from so
many business leaders that they're
waiting to see what happens in November.
And if we don't vote for change in
California, they're out. And the exodus
of businesses from California that
you've seen in the last few years could
turn into a stampede.
>> So if California is doing that badly, I
want to put two other points to you. One
is whether you think there is something
longer term going on that is affecting
the poorest in California and elsewhere.
And that is a long-term decline in
living standards that's happened over
the course of the last 50 years. So it's
not about the Democrats ruling
California now. It is about something
more systemic that reflects poorly on
American leadership for decades.
>> Well, I agree with you actually.
Sometimes people have asked me, well,
how did going back to your earlier
conversation, how did you end up
supporting President Trump? I do
remember back in 2015, I I for the first
time saw this chart based on US data.
This is going back 10 years now, 11
years, showing the earnings of the
majority of of workers in California. I
think the technical term was
non-managerial, non-supervisory workers,
roughly 80% of the workforce after
inflation. And it's basically a straight
line just flat. So through all at
Republican and Democrat governance in 50
years since 1974 I think it was
basically the the economic position
>> dated Nobel Prize winning economist has
done the the seinal work on that and I
don't know if that if those are the
figures you're referring to but he's
absolutely laid this out for the last 50
years but that's exactly why I think the
challenge is much broader than the
political points you're making. It is
one about choices that America's leaders
have made.
>> Right. I agree with that and I think
that there needs to be a much bigger
emphasis on the gap between the very top
and the super rich and so on. Of course,
that's been in the news with the SpaceX
IPO and so on. I think the real issue is
the fact that you've got so many people
in the lower end of the income scale who
just feel stuck and that social mobility
is gone. I think that's a absolutely a
broad point. However, within that, one
of the great things about America and
our system here is that you've got this
experiment in policym through the
federal system. In fact, you've got 50
states that do things a different way.
And even within that overall framework,
which I agree need serious reform, some
states are doing better than others. And
you can see it in the fact that people
and businesses are leaving California
and moving to states with more welcoming
policies to business and where the cost
of living is much lower. Uh Texas,
Florida, Tennessee, even our neighboring
states, Nevada. You've got a lot of
evidence now that the high tax,
high-spending, progressive model of
governance that you see in the blue
states, as they're known, like
California, like New York, is not
working. We've had 16 years of one party
rule in California where one party's
controlled everything. There's really
been no barrier to the democratic um
philosophy being implemented fully in
California. The results are among the
worst in the country.
>> But you know on people leaving there's
an aspect of this on which you could
agree with Gavin Newsome which is that
he is trying to stop the wealth tax on
billionaires that's been proposed by one
of the labor unions. He's determined to
try and stop it because he thinks it
will drive more people away. So area of
agreement, yes, between between you and
Governor,
>> very much. Although I have to say given
his close relationship with the unions,
I would have hoped he would have uh
acted sooner to stop that even becoming
a consideration. For example, right now
there's a process going on in
Sacramento. Very typical um it's going
to horse trading process where it's
possible it won't that the union itself
will take it off the ballot now because
they're negotiating some other kind of
agreements that could have been done a
year ago.
>> Yeah, but he's working on this. He's
working on this. That's the point.
>> Yeah. No, I agree with that. But as
often with Gavin Newsome, a little bit
more attention and focus earlier um
would have worked wonders. The other
point I wanted to put to you about your
economic critique of California is a
question really about whether the
policies of the federal government are
playing a role in making life more
unaffordable for Californians.
>> Well, it's certainly true that the um if
you which examples are you thinking of?
>> Well, let's take tariffs for for
starters and their impact on the cost of
some goods.
Well, I think that if you look at the
detail on that, um it's nothing like as
significant. We have the highest grocery
prices, for example, in the country. The
main drivers of that are policies made
in California. Energy cost the highest
in the country. Um the uh labor and
environmental regulations that make
operating here so expensive.
>> Can I can I give you others? This is
Bloomberg analysis from earlier in the
year that the jumps in the prices of
children's clothing, tools, outdoor
equipment, furniture, bedding, motor
vehicle parts, all of this is linked to
tariff policy and trade policy that the
administration brought in last year.
>> Yeah. But if you basically look at where
we've settled on tariffs um in terms of
the percentage rates and then you and
you look at the way that the
international trading system has worked
for a long time before the tariffs it is
a a leveling of the system and I think
that the impulse that drove that policy
is absolutely correct which is that
there hasn't been fairness. Most other
countries, most of America's trading
partners for example have a value added
tax um which distorts the picture in
terms of imports and export.
>> So you support you you you support the
imposition of tariffs.
>> Well, it's not a California state
policy. So I try and avoid weighing in
on policies where that aren't really the
subject of this campaign. I mean, I can
give you a general um observation that I
think it was important to try and do
something to to bring manufacturing back
to the US and that's happening.
Unfortunately, it's not happening for
California. That's a really good
example.
>> I remember I mean I've read you talking
about global and supporting
globalization. So, is your view
completely changed on that? because that
was something that you used to say you
believed in
>> that globalization was a force for good
and a and a force that created wealth
rather than reduced it.
>> For sure it's lifted. Yeah. Right. But
you've got to nothing is all good or all
bad. I mean I think the the the the
point about policy generally about in in
all sorts of areas it's about tradeoffs.
And of course it's true that over the
years that we've seen the globalization
of trade and and so on you've seen
tremendous um advances in economic
opportunity in some parts of the world
and that's a good thing obviously I
think anyone would support that but at
the same time partly because of the
sometimes the speed of transition um
partly sometimes because the
concentrated effects of a transition um
places have really lost out and suffered
and so the the policy goal al is to try
and keep as much of the positive while
alleviating the negatives. And I always
bring it back because I am running now
for governor of California. What does it
mean in California? Going back to the AI
AI companies, you look at Nvidia,
Anthropic, these big companies making
major investments in the US. None of
them in California. The job creation
that's coming from the AI boom in
America is happening outside of the home
state of those companies. That's
something I want to change so we get the
full stack as I describe it of AI jobs
in California. So, I do want to ask you
about your attitude to big tech because
I remember you being really critical of
these companies, Facebook as it was
then, um, Amazon and Google, talking
about their dominant position, how you'd
like the kind of framework where if they
became too dominant in the market, then
you'd want them to be treated as as a
monopoly, that you'd want maximum pay
rates for senior executives. Have you
changed your mind? And at that time you
were talking about regulation of of big
tech being really important to you and
now I don't see that kind of thing in
your in your policy in your set of
policies.
>> I've changed my job uh which is now
running for governor as I plan to be
governor. My job my responsibility
>> does that mean you can't afford to take
on big tech?
Let if let if I just finish this the
point which is that um it's it's my
responsibility will be to support every
business in California to help them grow
so we create jobs and wealth and
opportunity in our state. So regardless
of my personal opinions about this or
that company, I see it as the
responsibility of the governor of any
state to to stand up for the the people
and the businesses, small business,
mediumsiz, big global corporations,
whatever it is, that is my
responsibility.
>> So what is your personal opinion of big
tech?
>> Well, I think that like we were just
talking about in other areas, brought
tremendous advances and and changed
people's lives in a positive way. I'm
hugely proud of the tech sector and the
fact that it's that we're leading and
dominating um once again um in this new
wave of of innovation. That's fantastic
and I'm proud of that. Um but as with
everything, you know, there's positives
and downsides and the goal of uh policy
makers should be to be really careful
about not sort of leaping into trying to
fix things. there really is a danger of
of overcorrecting and having unintended
consequences. I think that's the skill
of of of governance and I think that
when you look at tech of course it's had
positive transformational effects.
Remember people are choosing to use this
technology. No one's forcing it on
anyone. Um people are using it because
they find it helpful and businesses are
using it because they find it helpful. I
don't want to stand in the way of that.
>> Yeah. Um, and I do understand of course
that you're doing a different job now
and running for office is different to
being a commentator and having much more
freedom when you can say, but there is
also a question of belief and core
principles and you clearly felt strongly
and thought a lot about tech, not least
because you've spent so many years, you
know, seeing it up close um, and living
in California. So, do you not have any
concerns today about the dominance of
these companies in our lives? They're a
key part of the stock market. A lot of
American wealth is wrapped up in them.
They're at the forefront of AI which
will change if not destroy many jobs.
>> Like,
>> have those concerns gone away or you
just can't talk about them anymore?
>> No, no. I I I think that um well, first
of all, not just observed, I I started
and ran a tech company. I taught at
Stanford University. So, um I absolutely
agree with you that you've seen you
you're seeing companies with a huge
transformational effect, but that's new
and and it's what innovation is. We've
got to uh be be you know careful about
what happens. That's what I that's my
attitude to the whole question of the
impact of technology on society is to
just be very open about what's going on
but not necessarily think that we as and
speaking now as someone who's running
for office has has has the ability to
really drive a change without causing
unintended consequences. Right now, for
example, on AI, you've got major
disagreement about what's happening,
even within the leaders of the sector.
No one really knows.
>> What do you think is going to be your
biggest hurdle in this race in the next
few months?
>> Well, I I think it's actually a um a
belief that we can turn the the desire
for change. There's no question that
California wants change. Every single
piece of data you look at shows that. uh
there's a clear majority of people who
think that we're on the wrong track and
that we need to change direction. Now,
what you've got to do is close that gap
between the desire of people that for
change and actually voting for it by
doing something that they haven't done
in sufficient numbers in recent years,
which is actually voting Republican. And
so my job is to say, look, I'm running
as someone with a positive, pragmatic
plan which for very specific benefits
that will help you in your life. $3 gas,
cut your electric bills in half, your
first 150 grand tax-free. Uh starter
homes for young people so they can
afford to buy a home in California.
These are positive, practical things. Um
and my job is to get out there and show
people how it can be done. And and then
I think um we'll win. I'm very confident
of that. you're going to need to have
Democrats vote for you essentially.
>> I I absolutely I mean it's uh it's a
clear um requirement that given the
numbers that you've seen in recent
years. Of course it's true that
Democrats and independents as it's
called in California no party preference
voters need to join our movement for
change. They already are. I mean, we
we've been doing events up and down the
state for a year now. Town halls,
hundreds of events. Thousands and
thousands of people now have come out.
Many times people come along. They're
open to everybody. And many times
someone would stand up and say, "I'm a
Democrat. I've never been to a
Republican event before. I voted for Kla
Harris, but something's got to change in
California." You're already seeing that
happen.
>> And I just wonder if that gets more
difficult from this point onwards
because President Trump's popularity has
declined. He's endorsed your ticket.
You've thanked him for that. You are
asking people who often will not like
him at all and will feel harmed by some
of his economic policies or who are
angry at the war in Iran to vote for
you.
>> No, I understand that. But look, it's
he's not he's not on the ballot and this
is a this is a point of uh choice for
California. Do we keep going in the same
direction or do we want to make a choice
to go in a new direction? There's a
sense of desperation and I think that
that is driven by factors that are that
they're created in California. You
mentioned the war, the Iran war. Of
course, that's lifted up gas prices
right across the country, but they are
$2 a gallon higher in California than
anywhere else today.
>> Do you agree with
>> the prices you're seeing around the
country that people are complaining
about as being incredibly high? We would
have welcomed that in California in be
before the war because they're way lower
than we had imposed here. President
Trump is president in all these other
states that have far lower cost of
living, gas prices, electric bills,
housing costs, you name it. And so it's
clearly not his policies. It's
California policies that are the problem
here.
>> Do you agree with the Iran war, his
decision to go to war in Iran?
>> Well, look, I I'm just focused on this
race. I'm really not a commentator on on
every political issue right now. Um
there's there's plenty to fix in
California. That's my focus 100%.
>> You really don't think you
need to or the voters of California
deserve to hear you express on that?
>> That's not the point. It's just to know
where you where you stand on it. You're
going to be you're trying to be a leader
of the state.
>> No, I understand. I I understand. But I
there's plenty to fix and focus on in
California. And as I said, I'm not a
political commentator. I can give you my
my very strong view that um it's um
completely dangerous for the whole world
for Iran to have a nuclear weapon. I
think the basis um for uh for that is
something that's broadly shared across
all political parties. That's why um
leaders of all kinds have been trying to
deal with this situation for many many
years. I've also expressed a strong
belief that you know remember my parents
are Hungarian they fled communism in
Hungary. Um uh I've always believed that
um the the way in which the Iranian
people have stood up to this brutal
authoritarian regime something that we
should support. So just as you know you
you see you you take the side of people
trying to overthrow um oppression
generally that's something of course I
believe in now that doesn't mean that
I've spent any time um looking at the
specific details of the implementation
of this or that policy. I'm 100% focused
on California. You you know how
President Trump is talking about the
regime members now who the US is dealing
with. Rational, smart, strong, not
radicalized.
It's the same regime and that's that's
the way he's referring to them now.
>> Look, I'm as I said, I'm I'm just not um
I actually hadn't even heard those
comments truly. I'm I'm it's a big
state. I'm on the road um from morning
till night up and down this state making
our case and I'm just not focused on
anything other than California right
now.
>> Okay. Well then you mentioned your
parents and them fleeing communism and I
can imagine that that experience
>> you know clearly formative for them
formative for you as well growing up I
guess. Is it part of why you became a
conservative because
you you you were not going to grow up to
be someone on the left of the political
spectrum ever? I think that's that's
probably part part of it. One of my
earliest political memories is in the
UK. I was born in the UK and both my
parents are Hungarian. Also my
stepfather's Hungarian. My parents split
up when I was young. My dad went back to
Hungary. My stepfather's Hungarian also
someone who who he actually fled ran
across the border with Austria and ended
up in a refugee camp. And like so many
um workingclass immigrants, he had a a
massive appreciation for the
opportunities of being in a in a free
country. I grew up in a regular
working-class immigrant home. He worked
construction. Um he was a builder as
you'd say in England. And I really
remember very strongly um uh around the
early 80s late you know when when
Margaret Thatcher had come been elected
this sense that she was for the workers.
She was for the for working people and
and people who wanted to to and the word
that became very commonly associated
with that strive and make progress and
get on in life and that sense of
pursuing opportunity climbing the ladder
of opportunity upward mobility through
hard work and effort that was something
that I I found that was very formative
um as I was growing up and I think
that's part of it too
>> and so that family experience in making
a different by fleeing communism. How
how does it make you view Cubans today
who unlike in the past are being
deported, some of them with criminal
records, but not always. These are also
people who fled communism. Well, I think
that um you
I understand deeply as you just noted
the desire for freedom, but you can't
you all of these migration patterns,
immigration and migration across
borders, everything falls apart if if
it's not done in a way that is legal and
controlled. You have everyone must
accept that that you can't just have an
open borders um system. it just causes
chaos.
>> And so support for immigration, for
welcoming people who are fleeing
persecution, all those things. I've
always actually David Cameron used to
talk about it the same way. Support for
all of that depends on the government
controlling that. And when the
government fails to control it, support
declines. You can actually see that
change in public opinion. you saw a drop
in support for immigration and welcoming
asylum uh seekers and so on in in the US
during the open border years of of Joe
Biden's administration. So I think that
you you've got to combine the desire to
offer people that opportunity with a
sense of orderly management of that
process.
>> Isn't the example of Cuba a bit
different in the context of the United
States?
I'm not sure what you're referring to
specifically
>> because of because of fleeing communism
that the US has traditionally
>> I don't suppose you're saying that
anyone who wants to flee communism
should be automatically accepted anyway.
You you know there's
>> well there are many there are many
Cubanameans today who feel very upset
with the with the deportation of Cubans
for precisely that reason. I guess
you're telling me you think they're
wrong. Well, I I don't I actually don't
know specifically the cases you're
talking. Are these illegal immigrants?
Well, I don't know exactly what you're
describing.
>> I mean, they they are they are people
who've entered the United States from
Cuba and now they are being deported.
Well, yeah. Did
>> they enter legally or illegally?
>> They would have entered and now been
undocumented, but that has been the
case. That has been the case for a long
time. But previous administrations
didn't deport them because there was a
certain protection for Cubanameans that
was different for others. and that has
changed now because of your family
history. I'm just wondering what you
think of it.
>> No, I I don't think my family history
means that I support illegal
immigration. I don't see how that
follows at all. I think it's very
important that we try and approach it in
a calm and reasonable way. Lower the
temperature. I think there's been far
too much divisive performative rhetoric
on the Democrat side. I think most
people agree that immigration is a
positive thing but should be managed and
controlled by the government. That's a
common sense position that I think the
vast majority of people support.
>> Yeah. And of course you're an immigrant
yourself to the US and you became US
citizen a few years ago. You've
renounced your British citizenship which
you didn't have to. Was it just awkward
to be running for office being a dual
national or did you really feel that you
just didn't want that passport anymore?
No, I feel very strongly that you're
asking for people to to put their faith
in you, their trust in you. They and and
to make a commitment to you and I think
you're obliged to make a commitment to
them. Um, and say I am 100% allin for
this country and this state, which I am,
but I wanted to have absolutely no doubt
about that in anyone's mind.
>> Is there anything you miss about the UK?
>> Well, not particularly. I mean,
obviously friends and family, but um we
we get back usually at Christmas time
and and and uh and see people and so um
I love California deeply. I feel at home
here um in a way that I haven't ever
before. Um, and I'm so proud to be an
American, proud to be a Californian, and
really honored to to be in the position
I'm in, which is to actually do
something, you could say, in a way, to
repay the incredible opportunities that
I've had here, and to restore that idea
of the California dream, which is a very
particular thing about our state that
other states really don't have. Um, to
really try and bring that to as many
people as possible.
>> There's really nothing you miss. the
pint in the pub. Tea and biscuits.
>> That's a fair point. I do. That's right.
When when we go back to London, one of
my first moves is um is is calling a
friend or meeting up with a friend say,
"Yeah, we got to go to a pub." That's a
that's a fair one.
>> How do you think the next few months are
going to be? Are you I mean, they're
going to be grueling, right? You're
going to be on the road.
>> Yes. Probably even more than before.
>> It's an honor to do it. Truly, it's an
honor to do it. It's such a struggle for
people in California and I feel this
tremendous sense of responsibility to to
not let them down. And that's why on
election night when we got the first
results and it seemed that we were going
to be okay, my feeling was
overwhelmingly just relief truly that we
okay, this is good. We haven't, you
know, we we haven't let people down.
That people have placed their their real
faith in in you being able to to help
lead a change. And now it's a very clear
choice actually, very helpfully clear
because you've got my plan for change
and on the other side Javier Ber who's
the living embodiment of more of the
same. So it's a really clear choice for
California and I'm excited about being
on the road and putting it out there uh
for people.
>> Would you like President Trump to come
on the road with you?
>> Look, I think I I haven't thought about
that honestly. Um he's uh he's got a lot
he's focused on. So I don't suppose
that's something that he's thought about
either.
>> I feel he might not be an asset to you
on the campaign trail in California.
>> Well, a lot of people voted for him.
More people voted for him in California
in than in any other state in 2024. Of
course, that's a function of being a big
state, but I would just say that
California is actually more of a
Republican state than people think. And
there's I get a very strong sense that
there's a ground swell of people who've
um who felt that it's just not possible
uh in these years of one party dominance
that actually change isn't possible. And
part of the reason I'm running a
campaign in such a high energy way which
people say they haven't seen for a long
time is to try and get that sense of
belief um back that we really can do
this.
>> Steve Hilton, thank you very much.
Great to be with you. Thank you.
>> And that is where we left the
conversation. If you are a Bloomberg
subscriber, you can see the written
version of this with my notes for added
context and see pictures of how Steve
Hilton has evolved over the years. That
is all at bloomberg.com/michell.